Docs: Make plando guide more user friendly (#4858)
ArchipelagoMW/Archipelago: worlds/generic/docs/plando_en.md

Reviewer: I don't love this split into single-placement and multi-placement, especially since you can combine `item` with `locations` and `items` with `location`.

Author: Oh, I didn't know you could do that. I'll see about finding a way to combine this section with the one below, and include this detail.

Reviewer: So I've been thinking about this more and have some general thoughts/notes:
I think it's weird that this guide tries to explain how to format a yaml through text. Sentences like "you add a new list element, starting with a dash -". which are very hard to actually understand, especially without immediate references. I think it's also odd that this kind of description is over here, in the plando docs, and not the generic or advanced docs. I do think these textual descriptions are probably more harmful than they are helpful.

One other thing, this guide is very thorough and I love that. I think it actually _should_ include the fact that `items`/`item` can be a list and not a dictionary. You could even explain this in some way like "If a list of items is provided, they are treated as if they all had values/weights of 1"

  plando: bosses, items, texts, connections
``` 

For a basic understanding of YAML files, refer to 
[YAML Formatting](https://archipelago.gg/tutorial/Archipelago/advanced_settings/en#yaml-formatting) 
in Advanced Settings.

## Item Plando

Item Plando allows a player to place an item in a specific location or locations, or place multiple items into a list 
of specific locations in their own game and/or in another player's game.

To add item plando to your player yaml, you add a new list item, starting with a dash `-`, under the`plando_items` 
block. You should start with `item` if you want to do Single Placement, or `items` if you want to do Multi Placement.

> After you define `item/items`, you would add another list item (without a dash `-`) for `location` or `locations`, 

Reviewer 2: We use "list item" here to refer to the structure that exists with dashes as well as the structure that exists without dashes. I'm not sure how precise we want to be with our terminology, but I do feel that there's a good chance someone will try to explain this in data type terminology (where the dashes indicate lists/arrays, and the non-dashed values indicate dicts) and this will create an unnecessary extra layer of confusion. 

On top of that, I think maybe we should potentially rephrase in such a way that avoids using the term "item" altogether, except when referring specifically to "items" as they exist in the Archipelago sense.

Author: I'll be using "list element" as the replacement phrase. Some YAML purists might not be happy with that, and some others might think the phrase is too technical or clinical, but I agree that using the word "item" too many times will confuse readers.

* A `location` block will only fill a **single location** no matter how many you define in it.

Once you are satisfied with your block, you may continue to define new list items, each starting with a dash `-`. Each 
list item can have several different options to tailor it the way you like.

### `items`
The `items` list defines the items to use. Each item name should be followed by a colon and a value.
* A numerical value indicates the amount of that item.
* A `true` value uses all copies of that item that are in your item pool.

### `item`
The `item` key defines a list of items to use, of which we will pick only one. Each item name should be followed by a 
colon and a value. The value indicates the weight of that item being chosen.

### `locations` 
The `locations` list defines possible locations those items can be placed in. Some special location group names can be 
specified:
  * `early_locations` will add all sphere 1 locations (locations logically reachable only with your starting 
    inventory).
  * `non_early_locations` will add all locations beyond sphere 1 (locations that require finding at least one item 
    before they become logically reachable).

### `from_pool`

> This option determines if the item should be taken *from* the item pool or *added* to it. 

Reviewer 2: We should maybe rephrase this. Are we treating the concept of the "item pool" as including plando-genned items or not? If it includes them, then the item is never being "taken from" the pool when from_pool is true. If it does NOT include them, from_pool being false does not "add" anything.

Author: Per Fill.py:

```py
                if from_pool:
                    try:
                        # If from_pool, try to find an existing item with this name & player in the itempool and use it
                        ...
                else:
                    item = multiworld.worlds[player].create_item(item_name)
```
So yeah I will rephrase this to be more precise.

* `false`: Create a new item with the same name (the world will determine its properties e.g. classification).
* `true`: Take the existing item, if it exists, from the item pool. **(Default)**

### `world`
This option is the target world to place the item in. It gets ignored if only one world is generated.
* **A number:** Use this slot or player number in the multiworld.
* **A name:** Use the world with that player name.
* **A list of names:** Use the worlds with the player names specified.
* `true`: Locations will be in any player's world besides your own.
* `false`: Locations will be in your own world. **(Default)**
* `null`: Locations will be in a random world in the multiworld.

### `force` 

> This option determines whether the generator will fail if the item can't be placed in the location. 

Reviewer: I feel the more generic explanation is better, especially since this can fail for some complicated reasons
```suggestion
This option determines whether the generator will fail if the plando block cannot be fulfilled. 
```

* `true`: The generator will throw an error if it is unable to place an item.
* `false`: The generator will log a warning if it is unable to place an item, but it will still generate.
* `silent`: If the placement fails, it will be ignored entirely. **(Default)**

### `percentage` 
This option is the percentage chance for the relevant list element to trigger. This can be any integer from 0 to 100. 
**(Default: 100)**

### `count` 
This option sets the number of items placed from the list. 
* **Default: 1 if using `item` or `location`, and `false` otherwise.**

> * **A number:** It will try to place this number of items.
> * `false`: It will try to place as many items from the list as it can.
> * **If `min` is defined,** it will try to place a random number of items higher than `min` (can be combined with `max`).
> * **If `max` is defined,** it will try to place a random number of items lower than `max` (can be combined with `min`).

Reviewer: I think the "try"s in this are kind of weird, since it _will_ do these things and the try/attempt structure isn't used many other places.
"Higher than min"/"Lower than max" imply they cannot be equal, I think "At least"/"At most" convey this better.
```suggestion
* **A number:** It will place this number of items.
* `false`: It will place as many items from the list as it can.
* **If `min` is defined,** it will place at least `min` many items (can be combined with `max`).
* **If `max` is defined,** it will place at most `max` many items (can be combined with `min`).
```

### Available Items and Locations

> A list of all available items and locations can be found in the [website's datapackage](/datapackage). The items and locations 

Reviewer: Might be worth explicitly mentioning that item groups and location groups are supported

will be in the `"item_name_to_id"` and `"location_name_to_id"` sections of the relevant game. You do not need the 
quotes but the name must be entered in the same as it appears on that page and is case-sensitive.

## Item Plando Examples
```yaml
 plando_items:
    # Example block - Pokémon Red and Blue
    - items:
        Potion: 3
      locations:
        - "Route 1 - Free Sample Man" 
        - "Mt Moon 1F - West Item"
        - "Mt Moon 1F - South Item"
```
This block will lock 3 Potion items on the Route 1 Pokémart employee and 2 Mt Moon items. Note these are all 
Potions in the vanilla game. The world value has not been specified, so these locations must be in this player's own 
world by default.

```yaml
  plando_items:
  # Example block - A Link to the Past
    - items:
        Progressive Sword: 4
      world:

>         - BobsSlaytheSpire

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        - BobsWitness
```

Reviewer 2: Renaming some things to coincide with the removal of StS from the Verified worlds.

        - BobsRogueLegacy
      count:
        min: 1
        max: 4
```
This block will attempt to place a random number, between 1 and 4, of Progressive Swords into any locations within the 

> game slots named "BobsSlaytheSpire" and "BobsRogueLegacy."

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
game slots named "BobsWitness" and "BobsRogueLegacy."
```

```yaml
  plando_items:
  # Example block - Secret of Evermore
    - items:
        Levitate: 1
        Revealer: 1
        Energize: 1
      locations:
        - Master Sword Pedestal

>         - Boss Relic 1

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        - Desert Discard
```

>         - Boss Relic 1

Reviewer 3: Boss Relic 1 is a STS location. We could keep it, but if we're removing it from the rest of the docs we should probably also adjust it here.

Reviewer 2: Resolved with my code review

      world: true
      count: 2
```
This block will choose 2 from the Levitate, Revealer, and Energize items at random and attempt to put them into the 

> locations named "Master Sword Pedestal" and "Boss Relic 1". Because the world value is `true`, these locations must be 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
locations named "Master Sword Pedestal" and "Desert Discard". Because the world value is `true`, these locations must be 
```

locations named "Master Sword Pedestal" and "Desert Discard". Because the world value is `true`, these locations 
must be in other players' worlds.

```yaml
  plando_items:
    # Example block - Timespinner
    - item:
        Empire Orb: 1
        Radiant Orb: 3
      location: Starter Chest 1
      from_pool: false
      world: true
      percentage: 50
```
This block will place a single item, either the Empire Orb or Radiant Orb, on the location "Starter Chest 1". There is
a 25% chance it is Empire Orb, and 75% chance it is Radiant Orb (1 to 3 odds). The world value is `true`, so this 
location must be in another player's world. Because the from_pool value is `false`, a copy of these items is added to 
these locations, while the originals remain in the item pool to be shuffled. Unlike the previous examples, which will 
always trigger, this block only has a 50% chance to trigger.

```yaml
  plando_items:
    # Example block - Factorio
    - items:
        progressive-electric-energy-distribution: 2
        electric-energy-accumulators: 1
        progressive-turret: 2
      locations:
        - military
        - gun-turret
        - logistic-science-pack

>         - steel-processing

Reviewer 4: These locations do not exist in Factorio, and Factorio's locations are unique in that they are entirely variable based on several factors during generation, making them unsuitable for plando.
I would recommend replacing this block with another world entirely.

Author: The Factorio items and locations were in the examples prior to my change, I just reorganized them. Do you have another example in mind?

Reviewer 4: Saving Princess has a good number of fixed items and locations with counts that can roughly match this block. I think it would make for a decent example of syntax, though my primary concern is that it may not be entirely suitable as it's a rather obscure game. If that's not an issue it should be fine, and I can suggest items and locations that could replace the currently listed ones if desired.
More suitable games may exist, but there aren't many that I'm familiar enough with to suggest.

  plando: bosses, items, texts, connections
``` 

For a basic understanding of YAML files, refer to 

> [YAML Formatting](https://archipelago.gg/tutorial/Archipelago/advanced_settings/en#yaml-formatting) 

Reviewer: This should use a relative link
```suggestion
[YAML Formatting](/tutorial/Archipelago/advanced_settings/en#yaml-formatting) 
```

Item Plando allows a player to place an item in a specific location or locations, or place multiple items into a list 
of specific locations in their own game and/or in another player's game.

To add item plando to your player yaml, you add them under the `plando_items` block. You should start with `item` if you 
want to do Single Placement, or `items` if you want to do Multi Placement. A list of items can still be defined under 
`item` but only one of them will be chosen at random to be used.

After you define `item/items`, you would define `location` or `locations`, depending on if you want to fill one 
location or many. Note that both `location` and `locations` are optional. A list of locations can still be defined under 
`location` but only one of them will be chosen at random to be used.

You may do any combination of `item/items` and `location/locations` in a plando block, but the block only places items 
in locations **until the shorter of the two lists is used up.**

Once you are satisfied with your first block, you may continue to define ones under the same `plando_items` parent.
Each block can have several different options to tailor it the way you like.

### `items`

> The `items` list defines the items to use. Each item name should be followed by a colon and a value.

Reviewer: It's not a list and I think "section" works well as a non-techy term
```suggestion
The `items` section defines the items to use. Each item name should be followed by a colon and a value.
```

> The `items` list defines the items to use. Each item name should be followed by a colon and a value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `items` list defines the items to use. Each item name can be followed by a colon and a value.
```

* A numerical value indicates the amount of that item.
* A `true` value uses all copies of that item that are in your item pool.

### `item`

> The `item` key defines a list of items to use, of which we will pick only one. Each item name should be followed by a 
> colon and a value. The value indicates the weight of that item being chosen.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `item` section defines a list of items to use, from which one will be chosen at random. Each item name can be 
followed by a colon and a value. The value indicates the weight of that item being chosen.
```

### `locations` 

> The `locations` list defines possible locations those items can be placed in. Some special location group names can be 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `locations` section defines possible locations those items can be placed in. Two special location groups exist:
```

specified:
  * `early_locations` will add all sphere 1 locations (locations logically reachable only with your starting 
    inventory).
  * `non_early_locations` will add all locations beyond sphere 1 (locations that require finding at least one item 
    before they become logically reachable).

### `from_pool`
This option determines if the item should be taken *from* the item pool or *created* from scratch. 
* `false`: Create a new item with the same name (the world will determine its properties e.g. classification).

> * `true`: Take the existing item, if it exists, from the item pool. **(Default)**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `true`: Take the existing item, if it exists, from the item pool. 
    If it does not exist, one will be created from scratch. **(Default)**
```

Author: Has the default changed?

Reviewer: No, that's just how `true` works

### `force` 
This option determines whether the generator will fail if the plando block cannot be fulfilled. 
* `true`: The generator will throw an error if it is unable to place an item.
* `false`: The generator will log a warning if it is unable to place an item, but it will still generate.
* `silent`: If the placement fails, it will be ignored entirely. **(Default)**

### `percentage` 
This option is the percentage chance for the relevant list element to trigger. This can be any integer from 0 to 100. 
**(Default: 100)**

### `count` 
This option sets the number of items placed from the list. 
* **Default: 1 if using `item` or `location`, and `false` otherwise.**
* **A number:** It will place this number of items.
* `false`: It will place as many items from the list as it can.
* **If `min` is defined,** it will place at least `min` many items (can be combined with `max`).
* **If `max` is defined,** it will place at most `max` many items (can be combined with `min`).

### Available Items and Locations

A list of all available items and locations can be found in the [website's datapackage](/datapackage). The items and 

> locations will be in the `"item_name_to_id"` and `"location_name_to_id"` sections of the relevant game. You do not need 
> the quotes but the name must be entered in the same as it appears on that page and is case-sensitive. You can also use 
> item groups and location groups that are defined in the datapackage.

Reviewer: I think the quotes thing should probably get removed since sometimes you do need them, or need to make weird adjustments between how the datapackage lists names and how `yaml` wants names
```suggestion
locations will be in the `"item_name_to_id"` and `"location_name_to_id"` sections of the relevant game. Names are 
case-sensitive. You can also use any item groups and location groups that are defined in the datapackage.
```

both Single Placement and Multi Placement.

* `from_pool` determines if the item should be taken *from* the item pool or *added* to it. 
  * `false`: Add to the item pool.
  * `true`: Take from the item pool. **(Default)**
* `world` is the target world to place the item in. It gets ignored if only one world is generated.
  * **A number:** Use this slot or player number in the multiworld.
  * **A name:** Use the world with that player name.
  * **A list of names:** Use the worlds with the player names specified.
  * `true`: Locations will be in any player's world besides your own.
  * `false`: Locations will be in your own world. **(Default)**
  * `null`: Locations will be in a random world in the multiworld.
* `force` determines whether the generator will fail if the item can't be placed in the location. 
  * `true`: The generator will throw an error if it is unable to place an item.
  * `false`: The generator will log a warning if it is unable to place an item, but it will still generate.
  * `silent`: If the placement fails, it will be ignored entirely. **(Default)**
* `percentage` is the percentage chance for the relevant block to trigger. 

>   * This can be any number from 0 to 100. **(Default: 100)**

Reviewer: Only integers are supported
```suggestion
  * This can be any integer from 0 to 100. **(Default: 100)**
```

> * `count` can be used to set the maximum number of items placed from the block. The default is 1 if using `item` and 
>   False if using `items`

Reviewer: I think it'd be good to mention `location` here as well
For a similar reason, I think the defaults on the next two lines should be removed
```suggestion
* `count` can be used to set the maximum number of items placed from the block. The default is 1 if using `item`
  or `location` and False otherwise.
```

>   * **A number:** It will try to place this number of items. **(Default: 1 if Single Placement is used)**
>   * `false`: It will try to place as many items from the block as it can. **(Default if Multi Placement is used)**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * **A number:** It will try to place this number of items.
  * `false`: It will try to place as many items from the block as it can.
```

>   * **If `min` and `max` are defined,** it will try to place a number of items between these two numbers at random.

Reviewer: Both values do not have to be defined, this could be expanded upon to indicate the overall behavior

Author: Wilco

``` 

## Item Plando

Item plando allows a player to place an item in a specific location or specific locations, or place multiple items into 
a list of specific locations both in their own game or in another player's game.

To add item plando to your player yaml, you add a new Block with a list element, starting with a dash `-`, under the 
`plando_items` block. Your block should start with `item` if you want to do Single Placement, or `items` if you want 

> to do Multi Placement.

Reviewer: "Block" should probably be lowercase. This paragraph is also a little odd to me, but I think that's just because *describing* yaml in words kinda... sucks. I do wonder if it can be put _after_ an example just so that it's easier to parse and there's something you can refer back to when you go "what are they talking about?"

Author: I could add some purely example yaml syntax above this paragraph, that might explain some vocabulary.

As I let this doc sit here and stew, I get more dismayed at how much text I needed to write to feel like I got the point across. This is my constant weakness as a doc writer, I often go WAY too verbose. But in addition to that weakness, the entire plando system has so many different pieces and moving parts that explaining all of it feels incredibly daunting. If it's that bad writing it, I imagine its 50x worse to anybody reading. 

Just my 2 cents, I don't expect any of that to be actionable info.

Reviewer: Yeah I know that feeling. I tried clarifying some stuff in the advanced options doc once and it just spirals into edge cases and complications that are really hard to write or read. I think an example like you mentioned could work really well. I think the major challenge here at least really is just that _describing_ yaml is a mess

After you define `item/items`, you would add another element (without a dash `-`) for `location` or `locations`, 

> depending on if you want to fill in one location or many. 

Reviewer: The fact that `location/locations` is optional is somewhat lost in this description. Maybe that just comes with how complicated item plando is though

You may do any combination of `item/items` and `location/locations` in a plando block, but the important takeaways are:

> * The block only places items in locations **until the shorter of the two lists is completed.**

Reviewer: I think "exhausted" makes more sense here, or maybe just "fully used up"?
```suggestion
* The block only places items in locations **until the shorter of the two lists is exhausted.**
```

Author: I liked "used up" more than "exhausted", I think it feels better to the lay reader.

Reviewer: Works for me 👍

* An `item` block will only place a **single item** no matter how many you define it.
* A `location` block will only fill a **single location** no matter how many you define.

Once you are satisfied with your block, you may continue to define new blocks, each starting with a `-`. 

Each block can have several different options to tailor it the way you like.

### `items`
The `items` list defines the items to use. Each item name should be followed by a colon and a value.
* A numerical value indicates the amount of that item.

> * A `true` value uses all copies of that item that are in your item pool.

Reviewer: This is missing how `item` works, namely, that if it is a dict (associated with a value), then the value is a weight instead of a count. Apparently, I learned this today, `item: true` when used with `item` does just work with `true` being a weight with a value equal to how many exist in the pool. I think that odd edge case can go unmentioned though

Author: > Apparently, I learned this today, `item: true` when used with `item` does just work with `true` being a weight with a value equal to how many exist in the pool. I think that odd edge case can go unmentioned though

That is a great example of why I have the reservation I mentioned above lol

Reviewer: Yeah... I definitely think the singular `item` + `true` case can just not get mentioned at all, I don't think _anybody_ uses that XD
But I think the weighted `item` case should get brought up, especially since the Timespinner example uses it. Which, actually, I think that example could be improved by changing one of the weights to 3 and explaining that it's a 25/75 split as a result. Should be a pretty easy change and I think it would flesh out the example a lot

        - Shadow Temple Hover Boots Chest
        - Spirit Temple Silver Gauntlets Chest
      world: false
```
This block will place the player's swords, bow, magic meter, strength upgrades, and hookshots in the dungeon major item 

> chests. Because the world value is False, these locations must be in this player's own world.

Reviewer: Might be good to mention that this is just like the default

Author: Sorry by default do you mean, like, these are OOT's vanilla positions for these items?

Author: Or do you mean the `world` value is False by default?

```yaml
  plando_items:
    # Example block - Timespinner
    - item:
        Empire Orb: 1
        Radiant Orb: 1
      location: Starter Chest 1
      from_pool: true
      world: true
      percentage: 50
```

> This block will place a single item, either the Empire Orb or Radiant Orb, on the location "Starter Chest 1". The world 

Reviewer: Another block where it's probably good to mention the defaults. Otherwise it reads like this is the only one that removes from the pool

Author: I'll change these around so the non-default values are used more often, so it can be explained what they're doing.

        - steel-processing
      percentage: 80
      force: true
```
This block lists 5 items but only 4 locations, so it will place all but 1 of the items randomly among the locations 

> chosen here. This block has an 80% chance of occurring. Because force is True, the Generator will fail if it cannot

Reviewer: ```suggestion
chosen here. This block has an 80% chance of occurring. Because force is `true`, the Generator will fail if it cannot
```
